We're making very good progress, we're able to create posts, view posts, view a single post, upload files,
validate content,
all great.
Now what is missing?
We want to be able to edit posts,
we want to be able to delete posts and authentication and users and connecting posts to users,
this is all missing, now
let's continue with editing and deleting posts before we dive into the authentication and user related things.
So for that, let's go to our feed routes in our node rest API project and there, I'll add a new route,
I want to be able to edit posts now and for that
I will use a new http method which we haven't used before.
Editing a post essentially is like replacing it, replacing the old post with a new one, we'll keep the
old ID but that is it. Since we'll replace a resource, I'll use the put method here and the put method is
one you learned about in the last module but which we haven't used before because with normal browser
forms,
you're not able to send it, through asynchronous requests triggered by javascript
you are however. Now we need a url here and the url will be /post and then also the ID of
the post encoded in the url,
so colon post ID.
Now we also need a controller action to handle that,
the important thing about put requests and the same is true for patch requests
by the way is that they also have a request body, just like post requests
but you can also have parameters in the
url,
well that would have been the case for post requests too by the way
but the important thing is we have a body for these request, we can add a request body and that will hold
the actual post data that I want to well use and that I want to use to replace my existing post,
so let's work on the controller now. In the feed controller at the bottom, I'll add a new action and I'll
name it update host,
the name is up to you but this is what we'll do,
we'll update the post in there,
this is the function and in here, in this function,
I can
first of all retrieve my post ID from my request params because we just added it there, right. In my
route,
host ID is a parameter which of course I can extract.
Now when updating a post I also will extract my title, so request body title, I will extract my content,
request body content and I want to extract my file, my image
url, however for that url
we have two options when updating. The first option is and that will be my default,
that image url is part of the incoming request and it's just some text in the request body.
That would be the case if no new file was added,
if no new file was picked, then my frontend code has all the logic to take the existing url and
keep that but we might have picked a file
and in this case request file will be set and I can now set image url equal to request file path,
this is the alternative. After all of this, at least one of the two should be set,
so if image url is not set at this point because we were not able to extract it from there and we
did not make it into this if statement, then we should throw an error
so here I will prepare a new error, no file picked, I'll set my status code to 422 and I will throw
that error here.
So that's my first little piece of validation,
we'll add more validation of course,
normally we should have an image url however. Now I have one little mistake here by the way,
this should be image here, what I retrieve from the frontend
and we need to tweak our frontend a little bit too.
There in feed.js,
in source pages feed, feed.js,
when we load all posts, so in load posts, that is when we basically load to post data from the server including
our image url.
Now we then store the post here in the frontend so that the rest of the react application,
the rest of the code I prepared can handle that, we need to tweak this line a little bit.
There you should access res data posts but we have to map this, which is a default javascript method into
a different kind of array or every element has to be changed a little bit.
Map takes a function that executes on every element in the array and it gets the element which in our
case is a post as an argument and then we return,
well the updated version of that object, so I return a new object here where I will use the spread operator
to get all the properties of my post object and then I'll add an image path key here which is
post.imageurl
.
Now image url
here is referring to the property I am storing on my server side,
there we are restoring a path to an image in the image url key,
you could have name this differently, if you named it differently here,
you would have to name it differently here.
Now I'm storing the original path here because when I'm viewing a single post for example, I do extract
that image url and I append my url to the domain.
Now the path should be well just a path without a domain
because I'm keeping that here and this will get reused later when we edit
this through this edit modal,
behind the scenes this path will be stored and if I don't choose a new file here, this path will be submitted
with my edited post and there, the path will be stored in a property named image,
you can see that in the components, the feed edit component under feed, feed edit,
there you could see all the internals, if you know a little bit of react
you can see the internals and see that I'm extracting my image path and I'm storing it in an image key
ultimately.
I don't want to dive too deep into react but this is what I'm doing on the frontend and this was one
adjustment that was required and on the server side, we can now extract our image here from the body and
either this is set or we selected a new file in which case a file will be found.
So now we can continue working on update post and we can continue working by
first of all adding more validation which we do in our routes of course.
Well there I will copy that array from my post route and I will add it here,
so for my put route I also want to validate the title, by the way we should switch that back to 5 characters
of length for both posting and putting.
So I will validate these two things,
I'll not validate my image because that is done directly in the controller action and I don't need to do
any other validations for now.
So with that added, let's go back to the controller and let's copy the validation logic from the post
route where I gather all my errors and then I check for errors not being empty
and then I would throw an error.
So before I extract anything else, I'll check these things in update post, whether I have any errors and
if I have, I'll throw an error.
If I don't have errors, I continue, check the file and if we make it down here,
so after all these if statements, then I know I have valid data
and now we can update it in the database. To update it in the database,
I will find my post by ID for the post ID which I extracted from the url, then I can do something or
we might have an error, if we have an error, I'll reuse that error handling logic you find in other places,
in other actions,
so I'll add my status code in the next, the error. If I am successful,
I know we have no database error,
I still need to check if post is undefined
which means we didn't find a post, in which case I will also throw an error just as we did it for getting
a single post,
I can copy that logic and again if you are copying a lot of code,
you might of course also refactor that,
I like the more verbose approach
to make sure we all understand each step we take in each action creator
and if we make it past this if check inside of the then block, then we found a post and then I want to
update the post of course.
So here I'll set my post title equal to the title I extracted, I'll set my post image url
equal to the image url I extracted and I'll set my post content equal to the content
I extracted
and then I can return post save here to save that updated post back to the database,
overriding the old post but keeping the old ID
and then here we get the result of that save operation
and here I want to return a response with a status code of 200.
We didn't create a new resource so it's not 201, with some json code or some json data where I say
post updated maybe and where I return that updated post which is stored in the result in the end.
So this is now the updating logic here,
there is one more thing we can add and that is some logic to delete the image.
For that I'll add a little helper function down there,
clear image which is a function that accepts a file path as an argument and then I will use the file
system package nodejs offers,
so I'll import it at the top by requiring fs
and with that imported in that clear image function here, I'll
first of all construct my file path for which I'll also import the path package by the way so
let's import that at the top too and now the file path can be constructed by joining dir name, then going
up one folder because we're running this inside of the controllers folder which is not where we will find
images,
so we should go up one folder to be in the root folder and then we look for whatever file path we got
here.
So images and then the image name would be the case in our application
and I can then use the unlink function to delete that file by passing the file path to it and we can
also log any error message
and I want to trigger that clear image function when ever I uploaded a new image.
So inside of my update post action creator, right before I save my updated post maybe, I'll check if my
image url which is the path to the image,
if that is not equal to post image url.
So to the image url I stored in my post before,
if they're not equal it obviously changed, so I uploaded a new file and that is where I will execute
clear image and pass the old image
url, so the old path as an argument.
Now with that, we got all in place here in the controller,
now we can go to the route and there we still need to register that controller action on the put route,
so on the feed controller I access update post here, that's one important step
and on the frontend so in the react code, we also need to do something. There in source feed, feed.js
in the
finish edit handler function there, we need to adjust our code now.
There we set up our form data which is correct for updating as well
but if we are in edit mode which will be the case if we make it inside this if statement due to the
logic I configured on the frontend, we want to send a request to localhost 8080
/feed/post/ and
now we need the post ID which we get from this state edit post._id,
that is where it will be stored in my react app and I'll set the method to put because we created a
put route.
Now with that, we can save all that and try that out and hopefully not get an error.
Let's edit the second doc here and add a couple of exclamation marks in both title and content.
Let's not choose a new file,
it's looking good, I see my exclamation marks there,
I see them in the content as well.
Here I get a confirmation message that should looks good and on the backend, I still only have one image,
well that makes sense because I didn't replace it anyways.
Let's now replace it by editing that same doc again,
let's not change title and content but choose a different file,
maybe that coffee mug, click accept, post updated is looking good,
it's not a doc any more so the title is not correct but on the backend, we only have the coffee mug now,
so updating seems to work
and of course we can confirm this by viewing that image as well,
there we also see all the updated data.
So that is working
and with that, only deleting is missing before we can finally start working on authentication.